1. This is a review of the manuscript entitled "Investigating how air resistance influences the speed of heavy and light objects" by Afzal, Desai, and Modani. The manuscript "aims to investigate the influence of air resistance on falling objects with different masses." While the conclusions follow somewhat logically from the data, the manuscript oversells the findings ("this proves that in real world conditions the presence of air resitance prevents constant speed of objects depending on the shape and mass of the objects") and needs major revision before it would be suitable for publication.

2. Major comments:
  a. Conclusions taken too far: The title advertises air resistance as well as heavy and light objects; additionally the text in the abstract mentions objects of different shape. In reality there were only two objects, a penny and a feather, and extrapolating the findings to include all effects of mass and shape and air is premature and not supported in the data presented here.
  b. Conceptual flaws: The authors conflate "constant speed" with air resistance. Air resistance (here they seem to mean drag) can result in a terminal velocity but does not necessarily do so. The authors do not entertain other explanations for why the feather (fig 1) takes longer to accelerate than the penny; one possibility is friction against the walls of the cylinder, which they do not explain. 
  c. Methodological flaws: To be repeatable, authors need to provide more information on the vacuum pump uses to evacuate the cylinder, the partial pressure or air density achieved, or provide a photo of the setup. Given that their method involved rapidly fliping the cylinder and then observing the resulting motion, it seems like there would be effects due to centriptal acceleration during the flip, and potentially issues in camera calibration / adjustment for foreshortening when the tilted cylinder was observed. No details at all are provided for how the motions were digitized - what software, what points, how the calibration was conduted; and the equation for "Speed_{avg}" appears to be completely made up. While the authors state they are computing a LSRL and R^2 value they do not give details how, what software was used, etc; nor is R^2 the only necessary statistic to report when doing such regression. Even though the authors filmed at 240 frames/sec they only seemed to have digitized every 0.25 of a second; this is not explained why.

  d. Results: The graphs also have different x axes (Fig 1 and Fig 2). While LSRL are mentioned they are not actually shown on the plots; nor is indication of experimental error from trial to trial (nor any mention of replicates!) given. The key point the authors wish to show is that the penny falls faster than the feather in "with air" conditions; and that they fall at the same speed in "without air" conditions but they do not explain why the without air speed is less than the with air speed which would counter their air resistance hypothesis.

  e. Discussion: The conclusion that "items fall at a constant average speed within an interval" is self-fulfilling; you can **always** take an average speed over an interval and that would be the average speed things fall at. Notions like "stabilized" are thrown around without being defined. They give a flawed explanation that for air resistance, the force (without saying "force") depends on the speed of the object, the area, (a drag coefficient not mentioned), (air density not mentioned), and how "light" the object is (citing Mohazzabi, which does not appear to be a peer reviewed article). They do not explain their claims that a penny should have less air resistance and focus on the R^2 value as their key measure which does not make sense.

  f. Remainder: Acknowledgements is too long and should be shortened. References are both weak; they are both non-peer reviewed pop articles for general consumption rather than detailed scientific work.

3. Detailed comments:
 a. Much of the writing uses incorrect word choice ("this proves that"), is overly wordy ("The following experiment was conducted to investigate...") Galileo is mentioned without citing the original source instead pointing to a pop article by John Lienhard.
 b. In methods, the source of major important equipment should be given. Where does one obtain a tube like the one used, or a pump like the one not mentioned, in order to replicate the experiment.
 c. While the authors mention doing 5 replicates, the stats and information they give shows no use of replicates nor does it show indication of experimental error.
 d. "To confirm our hypothesis" - we can only eliminate hypotheses that are not supported and provisionally accept ones that fit with the data we measure.
 e. "To conform to the speed" this makes no sense here; also the equation given is for slope not speed.
 f. Graphs are given as position in cm, this should be in meters. The angle of the tube is not stated. Only one trial appears to be plotted in each with no indication of experimental error.
 

